welcome to Timberwolves comm I'm Jonah
ballo a special day for Timberwolves
fans here as we welcome in head coach
Rick Adelman the 10th coach in franchise
history Rick first of all welcome to the
Twin Cities and thank you so much for
joining us today and taking a look back
at your decision when you decided to
leave last year and possibly take a year
off what made your decision with this
team a little bit easier as far as
coming back to the game and decided to
sign on with the Timberwolves well you
know when I said that that was early in
the summer and there was a lot of things
going on in the summer and I just wanted
to take some time and then as as we got
through August and everything and I was
approached by the Timberwolves I started
thinking about it and started looking at
the situation and I just thought it it's
a good young team and I thought it'd be
a good opportunity what excites you
about this team looking at obviously the
the owner Glen Taylor David Kahn also in
the fold here and some young players in
town I got to think of some things that
probably excite you as a head coach yeah
I think Glen has always had a great
reputation as an owner and when I met
with him he's very committed to try to
get this thing going in the right
direction and I think you know I've
known David a long time and it's a good
young group of players you know you have
to find a way to get them to play better
and to you know to come together as a
group but they certainly have talent
it's just a matter of finding a way to
make that come together on the court now
looking back at your career I mean so
much success over the 20 seasons over
61% winning percentage Portland
Sacramento Houston what's your
philosophy with the team that has that
talent there but just needs that extra
step to take it to that next level well
we have to find a way to figure out how
we're going to succeed as a team at the
offensive end I think that they showed
last year that they can score points
they've got some good offensive players
they they were they got better as year
went on it's a defensive end that we got
to be more consistent
we have to find a way to defend better
cut down the easy baskets and it's just
going to take hard work and I think each
one of the players I really have to make
it commitment not only to guard their
own guy but be part of five guys out
there working together you don't win
this league unless you make stops down
the stretch when they keep time to the
game and they struggle with that last
year looking back also at some of the
teams that you've coach you've had
players in that post position and moved
up to the high posts and helped that
offense really move smoothly that's
something that probably the Timberwolves
fans can look to this upcoming season
well we've developed the system I think
that we use we use our big guys a lot
around the elbow we use in as you know
people that you can go through but you
have to tweak with each team and within
until we get these guys in the court we
have ideas on what we think we can do
it's a matter of finding out what they
really can do and then when you find out
where the skills are then you have to
try to develop the system that takes
advantage of that where the players see
you know they can be successful in your
long storied career you know coaching
players like a Clyde Drexler Jerome
Kersey then moving on with Sacramento
and Chris Webber and all the success
that you add there and then a Houston
with a guy like you I mean how important
is it to adjust to what your players
capabilities are and also their
personalities off the floor no you have
to do that you've got to get to know the
players everybody's different every
player is different and I always take
the philosophy that I don't know what
went on in the past with a player or
another coach or another team I'm only
concerned with what happens day one
between us and I think that's the
philosophy I've always tried to use and
again and you have to find a way for
those players to believe that they can
be successful not only individually as a
team is there anything that's changed in
your career since the first time you
stepped on with Portland is there any
philosophical changes that really have
gone on through your coaching career I
think you learn is you know all the time
as you go I when I first started I was
fortunate to have a team in Portland
that was totally different than other
teams I mean they they were just so
physically strong and they were so
athletic you know sometimes we didn't
care if we missed a shot or knocks we
knew we were going to get the ball back
there was
that that way Sacramento was totally
different it was a team that was more
finesse they passed a shot so you
learned each group as you go and the
Houston was the same thing with the big
fella you know you had to adjust to him
so that's what you're going to have to
do here but by doing that you kind of
learn what you can do and you kind of
have an idea of how to adjust the system
to the players at this point in your
career what really drives you obviously
Championships is what we hear from
coaches aside from that what really
drives you in this field well I think
taking the challenge of getting a young
group like this and watching them grow I
we had that happen in Houston we saw a
lot of young guys who developed into
different roles when you had the
injuries to your stars and you watched
him grow and I think that's what I'm
looking forward to here it's going to be
a challenge if you can get this turned
in the right direction these guys can
start getting better who knows what
could happen because you need your young
guys to make steps towards in the right
direction and I think that's going to be
our goal and I know the assistant
coaches haven't been quite yet
formulated yet and put together so how
do you look at that staff they are not
specific names but what are their roles
going to be on this team I have a group
of about five or six guys that I'm very
familiar with and we're going to put
together a very experienced staff I
think staff that's Mosley's played in
the league but also has worked in the
league as a coach knows what it tastes
gonna have a good work ethic and more
importantly as people like to trust
I got a trust that they they know what
we're gonna do they're gonna be there
every day and they're gonna motivate the
players you spoke to some fans about
being here when you were with the
Sacramento Kings against the wolves in
the playoffs it's seeing that atmosphere
and how important that is to you to get
that back here and fans are excited
about that as well no you have to have
that I think I've always said that you
you can't the fans can't get you going
you have to get them going and this is a
great atmosphere when during that when
they had that run it was it was loud it
was it was a lot like the buildings that
we had in Portland or Sacramento even
Houston you know so it's it's a its
atmosphere that we have to create we
have to get them excited awesome stuff
there with
Adelman coach who's been in the league
for twenty years again like I said 61%
winning percentage there and just so
much success reaching the finals twice
with the Portland Trailblazers and then
the Conference Finals with the
Sacramento Kings we can't wait to cover
you this season thank you so much for
your time
let's head coach Rick Adelman and I'm
Jonah Bello right here I'm Timberwolves
calm